---
title: and The Resurrection of Jimmy Hoffa
excerpt: We are watching worker revolts in China and the Unionization push against UBER with glee. As Unions learn to harness the power of social media bringing instant global work stoppages, we anticipate seeing global unionization bringing excess wages back to the working class.
permalink: /resurrection-of-jimmy-hoffa/
image:   /images/posts/2016-01-10-and-the-resurrection-of-jimmy-hoffa/cathedral.jpg
---

##In Play Now

**Low Carbon Economy.**  The winners are all pretty well defined. Now it’s time to monitor execution and evolvement.   In the [KCM October 2015 Investor Letter](http://hvst.co/1R2rKPn) we covered this well. There’s too much oil. Ultimately, we see Russia getting control of OPEC after destroying excess capacity economically and militarily. Long story short, US skews toward LNG/CNG/RNG, China goes EV, eventually backfilling behind its expanding global grid assets with V2G turnkey smart grid storage solutions. Everyone is all geeked up about solar again after the omnibus budget. It’s not the budget driving solar. China is implementing new energy grid storage while the west arrogantly proclaims the world is flat. Jim Chenos is [now publicly parroting](http://www.cnbc.com/2015/12/17/cnbc-exclusive-cnbc-transcript-kynikos-associates-founder-jim-chanos-speaks-with-cnbcs-kelly-evans-on-closing-bell-from-the-yale-ceo-summit-today.html) elements of our thesis. I’m sure the ideas are original in nature to him as those who see the obvious don’t need to be spoon fed the obvious. But we’re glad to have him in our camp.

**Bitcoin** The masses globally need a non-central bank storer of value. There’s only 21 million potions available to the left of the decimal point. We have a gentleman’s position. In theory, this could develop traction which would make us wish we had taken some. So we have. Not a recommendation.

##Coming Into Play

**The Unwinding of Manipulations:** The era of omnipresent electronic truthiness is sparking unwinds of generational manipulations. Charles Dow, “All manipulations come to an end”. It’s more likely a paraphrase than a quote. But this is the summary of many themes we see just now starting. Some of them immediately have actionable market effects, others are just being monitored for opportunity.

**Bureaucratic Trolls:**  The days of being ‘sneaky’ are done. You see it everywhere email, social media trails, trolls are being illuminated and dropping like flies. The [Pennsylvania Email Scandal](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/pornographic-email-scandal-ripples-through-pennsylvania-politics/2015/12/26/fc411a76-a374-11e5-b53d-972e2751f433_story.html) is a festering hot spot. ZeroHedge has been on a roll with illuminating NATO / US support for ISIS. Really, there’s no place to manipulate truths anymore. Over the next decade, leadership will become synonymous with stewardship where bureaucrats come to carry themselves as fiduciaries.

**Post-Vietnam Academia:**  During Vietnam universities flourished harboring draft dodgers. New dorms necessitated an ever greater flow of new students. The business of everyone needs a degree to get a job interview was born. Student loan payers are now throwing the BS card. The value proposition isn’t there.  [Facebook’s COO joins the discussion against](http://www.businessinsider.com/sheryl-sandberg-says-mbas-arent-necessary-in-tech-2015-12) non-purposeful education spending. There are certain skill sets which need to be learned in a University setting. Learning Neurosurgery by trial and error…… yeah, not viable. Kids who aren’t leaving with a marketable trade, shouldn’t be staying and paying to get fallback degrees. Looking for the return of mass market trade schools.

**Cannibalistic Manipulation for Alpha:**  The punchline? At the end of the day the only time anything matters with asset pricing is when prices fall low enough that someone is willing to buy the whole company, or if the company changes greatly enough that the price is now so low that someone will want to buy the whole company.   All other pricing levels are subject to the whims and tussle of group think.

That being said, there are two mindsets facing challenges. The unspoken one is Modern Portfolio Theory. You have really nice 30 year perfectly smooth performance history charts that correlate with the Greenspan Bernanke Era of endlessly reducing risk free rates. We’ll find out as the risk free rate rises if the concept of MPT sells as well to investors when rates move the other 2 directions for the next 10 years? (prices move 3 ways, up, down and sideways).

Emanating from a blending of the higher plane of risk’s aspiration to capture only Alpha while suffering no Beta mixed with insane technological advances came HFT. Which has decimated the investor community to the point where [Fidelity](https://rewards.fidelity.com/offers/bundleoffer1?imm_pid=700000001008518&immid=00944&imm_eid=e2028929643&gclid=CKH65IOI_MkCFZKXMgodvb8CFg&gclsrc=ds) and [Schwab](http://content.schwab.com/web/trading/public/tradesource/index.html?src=nmk&sv1=p0bdiGHc_dc&sv2=%7BSITELINK%7D&keyword=%2bschwab%20%2btrades&device=c&adposition=1t1&matchtype=b&network=g&devicemodel=&placement=) offer 500 free trade promotions.  When the industry designs a culture where computers absorb all human inflows and then work the people back out of their positions, people get tired of participating. Hey King over Nothing, many golfing buddies are them co-located servers gonna bring in??? 

Some people became great fans of Activist investing to navigate this period. KCM survived by finding indestructible value.

Now that people are tired of participating, there are very few support levels between where group think and activists lose control of price trends and where indestructible value provides support. See SUNE and VRX no positions, not recommendations. The industry is going to have to relearn why someone would actually be interested in buying the entire company. HFT shifts to managerial analysis.

**Unwinding Peasant Parity Resurrecting Jimmy Hoffa:** Achieving Global Peasant Parity (I have just coined the term Peasant Parity) has been the consistent theme of globalization. For Americans it first was outsourcing and automation. Followed quickly by productivity gains and de-unionization. All in the name of “capitalism”. The unbridled celebration where the strong survive by eating the weak until they fully devour everyone’s seed corn as well. Us capitalists are self-destructably duplicitous. On one hand we realize that people will pay any price for which they can borrow to meet, hence the housing and education bubbles coincidentally ushering in the ascendancy of the $60,000 pick-up truck. On the other hand, we fight to systemically stamp out excess working class wages ignoring the reality that prices move to the ability of the customer’s ware withal to pay.  In the States we’ve undergone 35 years of replacing value added excess wages with credit based purchasing power.

Not that I’m a fan of unionization, but as a society we’ve thrown away the one mechanism which negotiates discretionary income into the underclass.   Yeah our inadequacy-overcompensation class has successfully used predatory leverage to create a debt slave class. But the debt slaves can’t afford to participate in the economy created by the slave masters who now beg central banks to maintain their asset pricing strata against the in-ability of the slave class to continue purchasing. We’ve screwed everyone please give us welfare so we don’t collapse too.

We are watching worker revolts in China and the Unionization push against UBER with glee. As Unions learn to harness the power of social media bringing instant global work stoppages, we anticipate seeing global unionization bringing excess wages back to the working class. As those who have been born on third thinking they hit a triple condescendingly scoff at this, keep in mind the first thing a fork truck driver making $70,000 does is buy lunch at the bar across the street from his factory – every day. The next thing he does is borrow for hunting property and snow mobiles. Then he placates his wife with a new car every year.   Without excess wages flowing to the working class there is no economic eco-system. Until we have a better mechanism to pull excess wages lower, resurrecting Jimmy Hoffa is on the list of trends affecting the markets. Worker wage push back efforts brings expanding credit and negative savings rates again.

As a human with a soul, I’m looking forward to this era where electronic media’s omnipresent truthiness brings a healthy balance back to the economic ecosystem.

May your 2016 be healthy and prosperous.